Base Stats:
Strength: Physical Potency by 10%, Physical Reduction by 5%
Agility: Damage Potency by 5%, Evasion by 10%
Intelligence: Magical Potency by 20%, Magical Reduction by 10%
Speed: Increases the amount of turn meter gained per action done by other characters

All stat increases are percentage based
All additions are direct stat changes

All additions occur BEFORE increases

All additions and reductions are FLOORED instead of rounded.

All character level stat changes occur before ability level stat changes.

Advanced Stats:
Critical Chance
Critical Potency
Evasion
Block Chance
Block Potency
Damage Potency
Physical Potency
Spell Potency
Physical Defense
Spell Defense

Ability Effects:
Life steal - Damage heals the caster for X% of damage done before reductions
Bleeding - Physical Damage over time
Poisoning - Magic Damage over time
Splash - 100% damage is done to the main target, each enemy to the sides recieve X% of the main enemy's damage 
Splash 2 - 100% damage is done to the main target, each enemy to the sides recieve X% of the main target's damage, 
           each enemy to the side of them recieve X% of the damage dealt to the secondary enemy
Replicate - 100% of the damage is done to the main target and to each enemy directly on both sides
Replicate 2 - 100% of the damage is done to the main target and to 2 enemies on both sides
Area of Effect - X% of the damage is dealt to all enemies, no longer targets

Status Effects:
Shroud: Untargettable, breaks on abilities/attacks
Poisoned: Taking Magical damage over time (does not adhere to defenses), stacks with other poisons
Bleeding: Taking Physical damage over time (does not adhere to defenses), stacks with other bleeds
Silenced: Cannot activate abilities
Blinded: Reduced Chance to hit
Haste: Increased speed
Slow: Decreased speed
Broken: Decreased physical damage defense
Spellmarked: Decreased magical defense
Amplified: Decrease all defenses 
Enrage: Increase physical damage
Focus: Increase magical damage
Heroism: Increase damage
Clumsy: Physical damage abilities/attacks have a chance to deal damage to the user, and a chance to cause that abilities effects
Backfire: Magical damage abilities/attacks have a chance to deal damage to the user, and a chance to cause that abilities effects

What is targetting?
A unit must be targeted by most abilities/attacks (not AOE or splash or replicate damage).
If a unit is shrouded they cannot be targetted by abilities.
If all enemies are shrouded, and your unit does not have any non-targeting abilities, your unit may either pass turn, brace, run(if NPC battle), or use a consumable for its turn.

What is bracing?
Bracing takes a turn to decrease all damage taken until that units next turn by 50% after all other reductions to the damage.
When Bracing, your speed is reduced by 25%.
Healing recieved by abilities (not consumables) is increased by 25%.
Counter Attacks are disabled during bracing.
Useful to survive a suspected large AOE/Splash/Replicated attack and wait for a healer type character to heal the bracing character.